We worked our way back to the fruits and vegetables like salmon fighting their way upstream. I saw some familiar faces—Mike Haden, one of our selectmen; Mrs. Reppler from the grammar school (she who had terrified generations of third-graders was currently sneering at the cantaloupes); Mrs. Turman, who sometimes sat Billy when Steff and I went out—but mostly they were summer people stocking up on no-cook items and joshing each other about "roughing it."

The cold cuts had been picked over as thoroughly as the dime-book tray at a rummage sale; there was nothing left but a few packages of bologna, some macaroni loaf, and one lonely, phallic kielbasa sausage.

I got tomatoes, cukes, and a jar of mayonnaise. She wanted bacon, but all the bacon was gone. I picked up some of the bologna as a substitute, although I've never been able to eat the stuff with any real enthusiasm since the FDA reported that each package contained a small amount of insect filth—a little something extra for your money.

"Look," Billy said as we rounded the corner into the fourth aisle. "There's some army guys."

There were two of them, their dun uniforms standing out against the much brighter background of summer clothes and sportswear. We had gotten used to seeing a scattering of army personnel with the Arrowhead Project only thirty miles or so away. These two looked hardly old enough to shave yet.

I glanced back down at Steff’s list and saw that we had everything… no, almost but not quite. At the bottom, as an afterthought, she had scribbled: *Bottle of Lancers?* That sounded good to me. A couple of glasses of wine tonight after Billy had sacked out, then maybe a long slow bout of lovemaking before sleep.

I left the cart and worked my way down to the wine and got a bottle. As I walked back I passed the big double doors leading to the storage area and heard the steady roar of a good-sized generator. I decided it was probably just big enough to keep the cold cases cold, but not large enough to power the doors and cash registers. It sounded like a motorcycle back there.

Norton appeared just as we got into line, balancing two six-packs of Schlitz Light, a loaf of bread, and the kielbasa I had spotted a few minutes earlier. He got in line with Billy and me.

It seemed very warm in the market with the air conditioning off, and I wondered why none of the stockboys had at least chocked the doors open. The generator roared monotonously. I had the beginnings of a headache.

"Put your stuff in here before you drop something," I said.

"Thanks."

The lines were up past the frozen food now; people had to cut through to get what they wanted and there was much excuse-me-ing and pardon-me-ing.

"This is going to be a cunt," Norton said morosely, and I frowned a little. That sort of language is rougher than I'd like Billy to hear.

The generator's roar muted a little as the line shuffled forward. Norton and I made desultory conversation, skirting around the ugly property dispute and sticking with things like the Red Sox's chances and the weather. At last we exhausted our little store of small talk and fell silent. Billy fidgeted beside me. The line crawled along.

"Jeez, why can't they hurry up, Dad?" Billy asked. That pinched look was still on his face, and suddenly, briefly, the mist of disquiet that had settled over me rifted, and something terrible peered through from the other side—the bright and metallic face of terror. Then it passed.

"Keep cool, champ," I said.

We had made it up to the bread racks—to the point where the double line bent to the left. We could see the checkout lanes now, the two that were open and the other four, deserted. Beyond the lanes was the big sectioned plate-glass window which gave a view of the parking lot. The view was partially obscured by the white-paper backs of signs advertising current specials. We were in the line that would eventually lead us to the checkout where Bud Brown was standing. There were still maybe thirty people in front of us. The easiest one to pick out was Mrs. Carmody, in her blazing-yellow pantsuit. She looked like an advertisement for yellow fever.

Suddenly a shrieking noise began in the distance. It quickly built up in volume and resolved itself into the crazy warble of a police siren. A horn blared at the intersection and there was a shriek of brakes and burning rubber. The siren reached its loudest as it approached the market and then began to fade as the police car went past.

Norton went to look. After a few moments he came back. "Local fuzz," he said.

Then the town fire whistle began to wail, slowly cranking up to a shriek of its own, falling off, then rising again. Billy grabbed my hand—clutched it.

"What is it, Daddy?" he asked, and then, immediately: "Is Mommy all right?"

"Must be a fire on the Kansas Road," Norton said. "Those damned live lines from the storm. The fire trucks will go through in a minute."

That gave my disquiet something to crystallize on. There were live lines down in our yard.

I didn't want to be in this line. All of a sudden I very badly didn't want to be in it.

Someone pushed through the IN door, some teenager. "The fog!" he yelled. "Y'oughta see the fog! It's rolling right up Kansas Road!"

People looked around at him. He was panting, as if he had run a long distance. Nobody said anything.

"Well, y'oughta see it," he repeated, sounding defensive this time.

People eyed him and some of them shuffled, but no one wanted to lose his or her place in line. A few people who hadn't reached the lines yet left their carts and strolled through the empty checkout lanes to see. A big guy in a summer hat yanked open the OUT door and several people—ten, maybe a dozen—went out with him. The kid went along.

"Don't let out all the air conditioning," one of the army kids cracked, and there were a few chuckles. I wasn't chuckling. I had seen the mist coming across the lake.

"Billy, why don't you go have a look?" Norton said.

"No," I said at once, for no concrete reason.

The line moved forward again. The fire whistle whooped and screamed. I didn't like it. It sounded like big-league doom blowing that way.

More people went out. A few even left their places in line. Then grizzled old John Lee Frovin came ducking in and yelled: "Hey! Anybody got a camera?" He looked around, then ducked back out again.

That caused something of a rush. If it was worth taking a picture of, it was worth seeing.

Suddenly Mrs. Carmody cried in her rusty but powerful old voice, "Don't go out there!"

People turned around to look at her. The orderly shape of the lines had grown fuzzy.

"Don't go out there!" Mrs. Carmody yelled. "It's death! I feel that it's death out there!"

Bud and Ollie Weeks, who both knew her, just looked impatient and irritated, but any summer people around her stepped smartly away.

Things began to happen at an accelerating, confusing pace then.

A man staggered into the market, shoving the IN door open. His nose was bleeding.

"Something in the fog!" he screamed, and Billy shrank against me. "Something in the fog! Something in the fog took John Lee! Something—" He staggered back against a display of lawn food and sat down there. "Something in the fog took John Lee and I heard him screaming!"

The situation changed.

Made nervous by the storm, by the sirens, by the subtle dislocation of the power outage, and by the steadily mounting atmosphere of unease, people began to move in a body.

They didn't bolt. It wasn't exactly a panic. They didn't run—or at least, most of them didn't. But they went.

Some of them just went to the big show window to look out. Others went out the IN door, some still carrying their intended purchases.

Bud Brown, harried and officious, began yelling: "Hey! You haven't paid for that! Hey, you! Come back here with those hotdog rolls!"

Someone laughed at him, a crazy, yodeling sound. Someone else laughed. Brown flushed. He grabbed a box of mushrooms away from a lady, and the lady screamed, "Give me back my mushies!"

This bizarre term of affection caused two men nearby to break into crazy laughter—and there was something of the old English Bedlam about all of it, now.

Mrs. Carmody trumpeted again not to go out there. The fire whistle whooped breathlessly.

And Billy burst into tears.

"Daddy, what's that bloody man? Why is that bloody man?"

"It's okay, Big Bill, it's his nose, he's okay."

"What did he mean, something in the fog?" Norton asked. He was frowning ponderously, which was probably Norton's way of looking confused.

"Daddy, I'm scared," Billy said through his tears. "Can we please go home?"

Someone bumped past me roughly, jolting me off my feet, and I picked Billy up. I was getting scared, too. The confusion was mounting. Sally, the checker by Bud Brown, started away and he grabbed her back by the collar of her red smock. It ripped. She slap-clawed out at him, her face twisting.

"Get your fucking hands off me!" she screamed.

"Oh, shut up, you little bitch," Brown said, but he sounded totally astounded.

He reached for her again and Ollie Weeks said sharply: "Bud! Cool it!"

Someone else screamed. It hadn't been a panic before—not quite—but it was getting to be one. People streamed out of both doors. There was a crash of breaking glass and Coke fizzed suddenly across the floor.

"What the Christ is this?" Norton exclaimed.

That was when it started getting dark... but no, that's not exactly right. My thought at the time was not that it was getting dark but that the lights in the market had gone out. I looked up at the fluorescents in a quick reflex action. And at first, until I remembered the power failure, it seemed that was it. Then I remembered they had been out all the time we had been in the market and things hadn't seemed dark before.

Then I knew, even before the people at the window started to yell and point.

The mist was coming.

It came from the Kansas Road entrance to the parking lot. It was white and bright but non-reflecting. It was moving fast, and it had blotted out most of the sun. Where the sun had been there was now a silver coin in the sky, like a full moon in winter seen through a thin scud of cloud.

It came with lazy speed. Watching it reminded me somehow of last evening's waterspout. They hold you spellbound, the way Billy and Steffy had been in front of the picture window last night.

It rolled impartially across the two-lane blacktop and erased it from view. The McKeons' nice restored Dutch Colonial was swallowed whole. The KEEP RIGHT sign at the entrance disappeared, the black letters seeming to float for a moment in limbo. The cars in the parking lot began to disappear next.

"What the Christ is this?" Norton asked again, and there was a catch in his voice.

It came on, eating up the blue sky and the fresh black hottop with equal ease. The blue sky disappeared to a wide swipe, then to a stripe, then to a pencil line. Then it was gone.

Blank white pressed against the glass.

I could see as far as the litter barrel that stood maybe four feet away, but not much farther. I could see the front bumper of my Scout, but that was all.

A woman screamed, very loud and long. Billy pressed himself more tightly against me. His body was trembling.

A man yelled and bolted through one of the deserted lanes toward the door. I think that was what finally started the stampede. People rushed pell-mell into the fog.

"Hey!" Brown roared. "Hey you people, you can't take that stuff! Get back here with that stuff, you're shoplifting!"

They kept going, but some of them tossed their stuff aside. They poured out into the fog, and none of us who stayed ever saw them again.

There was a faint, acrid smell drifting in through the open door. People began to jam up there. Some pushing and shoving started.

Norton started to wander off, heading for the door. I switched Billy to the other arm so I could grab Norton's. "No, man, I wouldn't," I said.

He turned back. "What?"

"Better wait and see."

"See what?"

"I don't know," I said.

"You don't think—" he began, and a shriek came out of the fog.

Norton shut up.

The tight jam at the OUT door loosened and then reversed itself. The babble of conversation subsided. The faces of the people by the door suddenly looked flat and pale.

The shriek went on and on, competing with the fire whistle. It seemed impossible that any human pair of lungs could have enough air to sustain it.

Norton muttered, "Oh my God," and ran his hands through his hair.

The shriek ended abruptly. It did not dwindle; it was cut off.

One more man went outside, a beefy guy in chino workpants. I think he was set on rescuing the shrieker. For a moment he was out there, visible through the glass and the mist, like a figure seen through a milk-scum on a tumbler.

Then something beyond him appeared to move, a gray shadow in all that white. And it seemed to me that instead of running into the fog, the man was *jerked* into it, his hands flailing upward as if in surprise.

For a moment there was total silence in the market. A constellation of moons suddenly glowed into being outside. The parking-lot sodium lights, supplied by underground cables, had just gone on.

"Don't go out there," Mrs. Carmody said in her best gore-crow voice. "It's death to go out there."

All at once, no one seemed disposed to argue or laugh.

Another scream came from outside, this one muffled and rather distant-sounding. Billy tensed against me again.

"David, what's going on?" Ollie Weeks asked. There were big beads of sweat on his round, smooth face. "What is this?"

"I'll be goddammed if I have any idea," I said.

"Billy, I have to put you down. I'll hold your hand, but you're breaking my arms, okay?"

"Mommy," he whispered.

"She's okay," I told him. It was something to say.

An old geezer walked past us. He said loudly: "It's one of those pollution clouds. The mills at Rumford and South Paris. Chemicals." With that, he made off up Aisle 4.

"Let's get out of here, David," Norton said with no conviction at all. "What do you say we—"

There was a thud. An odd, twisting thud that I felt mostly in my feet, as if the entire building had suddenly dropped three feet.

Several people cried out in fear and surprise. There was a musical jingle of bottles destroying themselves upon the tile floor. A chunk of glass fell out of one of the segments of the wide front window. The fire whistle stopped in mid-whoop.

The quiet that followed was the bated silence of people waiting for something else, something more.

"You people!" Norton bellowed. "All you people, listen to me!" They looked around. "It may be dangerous to go outside!"

"Why?" a woman screamed back. "My kids're at home! I got to get back to my kids!"

"It's death to go out there!" Mrs. Carmody came back smartly.

A teenager gave her a sudden hard push and she sat down on a bag of fertilizer with a surprised grunt. "Stop saying that, you old bag! Stop rappin' that crazy bullshit!"

"Please!" Norton yelled. "If we just wait a few moments until it blows over and we can see—"

A babble of conflicting shouts greeted this.

"He's right," I said, shouting to be heard. "Let's just try to keep cool."

"I think that was an earthquake," a bespectacled man said softly. He held a package of hamburger and a bag of buns. His other hand was holding the hand of a little girl, maybe a year younger than Billy. "I really think that was an earthquake."

Somewhere a can that had been jostled to the very edge of its shelf fell off with a delayed clatter. Billy burst into tears. "I want to go home! I want my MOTHER!"

"Can't you shut that kid up?" Bud Brown asked.

"Would you like a shot in the teeth, motormouth?" I asked him.

"Come on, Dave, that's not helping," Norton said distractedly.

"I'm sorry," a woman said. "I'm sorry, but I can't stay here. I've got to get home and see to my kids." She looked around at us, a blond woman with a tired, pretty face.

"Wanda's looking after little Victor, you see. Wanda's only eight and sometimes she forgets... forgets she's supposed to be... well, watching him, you know. And little Victor... he likes to turn on the stove burners to see the little red light come on... he likes that light... and sometimes he pulls out the plugs... little Victor does... and Wanda gets... bored watching him after a while... she's just eight..."

She stopped talking and just looked at us. I imagine that we must have looked like nothing but a bank of merciless eyes to her right then.

"Isn't anyone going to help me?" she screamed. Her lips began to tremble. "Won't... won't anybody here see a lady home?"

No one replied. People shuffled their feet. She looked from face to face with her own broken face. The fat local man took a hesitant half-step forward and his wife jerked him back with one quick tug.

"You?" the blond woman asked Ollie. He shook his head.

"You?" she said to Bud. He put his hand over the calculator on the counter and made no reply.

"You?" she said to Norton, and Norton began to say something in his big lawyer's voice, something about how no one should go off half-cocked, and… and she dismissed him and Norton just trailed off.

"You?" she said to me, and I picked Billy up again and held him in my arms like a shield to ward off her terrible broken face.

"I hope you all rot in hell," she said. Her voice was dead tired. She went to the OUT door and pulled it open, using both hands. I wanted to say something to her, call her back, but my mouth was too dry.

A teenage kid began, "Aw, lady, listen—" and held her arm. She looked down at his hand and he let her go, shamefaced.

She slipped out into the fog.

We watched her go and no one said anything. We watched the fog overlay her and make her insubstantial, not a human being anymore but a pencil-ink sketch of a human being done on the world's whitest paper. For a moment it was like the letters of the KEEP RIGHT sign; her arms and legs and pallid blond hair were all gone and only the misty remnants of her red summer dress remained, seeming to dance in white limbo.

Then her dress was gone, too.

And no one said anything.